#   Gestionnaire de travaux | A job manager

A job manager takes over the shell functionalities dealing with the manipulation of jobs, allowing to start the execution of a program, in foreground or in background, to interrupt or suspend a process, to restart its execution, etc.

A job manager is therefore responsible for processing the signals sent by character inputs such as <intr> (Ctrl+C) to pass them on to processes running in the foreground. A job manager is also in charge of implementing job handling commands such as bg which restarts a suspended process in the background.

The implementation of a job manager is mainly based on the maintenance of a structure storing all jobs, on the redirection of signals generated by the system to the jobs and on the generation of signals for the execution of job handling commands.

# Foreground and background work

A basic manager is able to manipulate a foreground job and a set of background jobs. In addition, other jobs can be suspended; their execution will continue when the job manager signals them using the SIGCONT signal.


You can find in this depo :

-   a `Makefile` ;
-   `mshell.c` : contain `main()` function ;
-   `cmd.c`, `cmd.h` : contain commands `fg`, `bg`, `stop`...
-   `jobs.c`, `jobs.h` : contain the lib managing the
    job-related data structures ;
-   `sighandlers.c`, `sighandlers.h` : contain function that act upon a signal ;
-   `common.c`, `common.h` : contains datas and functions common to differents files.


## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites
 None
 
### Installing

A step by step series of examples that tell you have to get a development env running

To launch the project
```
Make 
./mshell

```

Little demo
```
mshell> wc Makefile 
      44     113     763 Makefile
mshell> atom & 
[1] (74505) atom
```


## See whats under the hood

this will show when a signal is use 
```
./mshell -v 
```

## Built With

* C 


## Authors

* **SMAKIC Eldin**  - *developper* - [eldinsmakic](https://github.com/eldinsmakic/)

